cairo-documentation-style-guide issue # 717 (#720)
cairo-book/cairo-book: cairo-documentation-style-guide.md

- If a bullet point is a full sentence, you can end it with a full stop.
- If a list has at least one full stop, end all other list items with a full stop.

  > To reliably interact with these peripherals:
  >
  > - Always use `volatile` methods to read or write to peripheral memory, as it can change at any time.
  > - In software, we should be able to share any number of read-only accesses to these peripherals.
  > - If some software should have read-write access to a peripheral, it should hold the only reference to that peripheral.

- For longer list items, consider using a summary word of phrase to make content [scannable](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/scannable-content/).

  > If you run Windows on your host machine, make sure ...
  >
  > - **MSVC**: Recommended ABI, included in ...
  > - **GNU**: ABI used by the GCC toolchain ...

  -  For an example using bold font, see the list in the [Modules Cheat Sheet](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch07-02-defining-modules-to-control-scope-and-privacy.html#modules-cheat-sheet) section in The Rust Programming Language book.

>   -  For an example using monospace font, see the [Panicking](https://docs.rust-embedded.org/book/start/panicking.html#panicking) section in The Embedded Rust Book.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -  For an example using monospace font, see the [Appendix A](https://book.cairo-lang.org/appendix-01-keywords.html#strict-keywords) section in The Cairo Book.
```

## Using `monospace`

Use monospace font for the following items:

- Code snippets

>   The [Installation](https://book.cairo-lang.org/ch01-01-installation.html) chapter in the Cairo Programming Language book suggests:
> 
>   [The Rust Programming Language](https://github.com/rust-lang-ja/book-ja/blob/master-ja/style-guide.md) book also suggests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Start the terminal commands with $
  - Output of previous commands should not start with $
```

  - Use `bash` syntax highlighting

- Cairo declarations: commands, functions, arguments, parameters, flags, variables
- In-line command line output

  > Writing a program that prints `Hello, world!`

- Data types: `u8`, `u128`

> 

Reviewer: missing

Names of crates, traits, libraries,

Command line tools, plugins, packages

### Monospace and Other Types of Formatting

Monospace font can also be used in:

- headings

  > **Serializing with `Serde`**

- Important information, notes...

>   > **Serializing with `Serde`**

Reviewer: repetition

  - [Documentation](#documentation)
  - [Code](#code)

## Heading Titles

The Cairo Book usually have heading titles based on nouns or gerunds:

> **Design Patterns**<br>
> **Using Structs to Structure Related Data**

### Capitalization

In heading titles, capitalize the first letter of every word **except for**:

- Articles (a, an, the); unless an article is the first word.

  > **Defining an Enum**<br>
  > **Generic Types and Traits**

- Coordinating conjunctions (and, but, for, or, nor).

  > **Packages and Crates**

- Prepositions of four letters or less; unless these prepositions are the first or last words.
  - Prepositions of _five_ letters and above should be capitalized (Before, Through, Versus, Among, Under, Between, Without, etc.).

  > **Peripherals as State Machines**

Do not capitalize names of functions, commands, packages, websites, etc.

> **What is `assert`**<br>
> **Publishing on crates.io**

See also, the [Using `monospace`](#using-monospace) section.

In hyphenated words, do not capitalize the parts following the hyphens.

> **Built-in Targets**<br>
> **Allowed-by-default Lints**

## Linking

> ### Adding Links

Reviewer 2: for links, we don't do that i think you can remove it.

we only do formatting with  [link] (path)  (without space)

Reviewer: I think we should do that tbh

Reviewer 2: ok! it would be better, for sure. @stevencartavia  if you want to open another issue to do this for all links in the book (or only start with a few chapter), feel free :)

Reviewer: @TAdev0 I think this can be made gradually, no need to change everything all at once. Just keep things cleaner than you found them every time a page is modified

To simplify link maintenance, follow the rules below:

- Use [link variables][stackoverflow-link-var] with variable names that give a clue on where the link leads.
- Define link variables right before the end of the section/subsection where they are used.

[stackoverflow-link-var]: https://stackoverflow.com/a/27784490/10308406

Example:

```md
[`scarb`][scarb-github] Scarb bundles the Cairo compiler and the Cairo language server together in an easy-to-install package so that you can start writing Cairo code right away.

[scarb-github]: https://github.com/software-mansion/scarb
```

### Formatting

The Cairo Book usually use the following link formatting:

> Instead, you must define a [Trait](https://book.cairo-lang.org/ch08-02-traits-in-cairo.html) and a, ...

> Look at the [Understanding Ownership](https://book.cairo-lang.org/ch04-00-understanding-ownership.html) chapter for more details...

> [The Rust Programming Language](https://github.com/rust-lang-ja/book-ja/blob/master-ja/style-guide.md) book also suggests:

Reviewer 2: remove this line

- Make intra-book links relative, so they work both online and locally

Do NOT turn long phrases into links

  > ❌ See the [Cairo Reference’s section on constant evaluation](https://book.cairo-lang.org/ch02-01-variables-and-mutability.html) for more information on what operations can be used when declaring constants.

Also, consider the following:

- Do not provide a link to the same location repeatedly in the same or adjacent paragraphs without a good reason, especially using different link text.
- Do not use the same link text to refer to different locations.

>   > `scarb` might have a section in a book and a github repo. In this case, see the [`espup`](https://book.cairo-lang.org/ch01-01-installation.html) section and [`scarb` repo](https://github.com/software-mansion/scarb).

Reviewer 2: installation section, not espup for the cairo book

See also, the [Using `monospace`](#using-monospace) section.

## Lists

### Types

The following types of lists are usually used in documentation:

- **Bullet list** -- use it if the order or items is not important

> - **Numbered list** -- use it if the order of items is important, such as when describing a process

Reviewer 2: i dont think we ever used numbered list in the book

Reviewer 2: @stevencartavia  actually we do for the new Randomness chapter, you can leave it !

  - **Procedure** -- special type of numbered list that gives steps to achieve some goal (to achieve this, do this); for an example of a procedure, see the [Usage](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/rustc/profile-guided-optimization.html#usage) section in The rustc book.

### Formatting

The Cairo Book usually use the following list formatting:

> - Finish an introductory sentence with a colon.

Reviewer 2: mmh we very often end each sentence with a point, not a colon.

- Capitalize the first letter of each bullet point.

>   > Using C or C++ inside of a Rust project consists of two major parts:

Reviewer 2: this has nothing to do with the cairo book

  > - If some software should have read-write access to a peripheral, it should hold the only reference to that peripheral.

- For longer list items, consider using a summary word of phrase to make content [scannable](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/scannable-content/).

  > If you run Windows on your host machine, make sure ...
  >
  > - **MSVC**: Recommended ABI, included in ...
  > - **GNU**: ABI used by the GCC toolchain ...

  -  For an example using bold font, see the list in the [Modules Cheat Sheet](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch07-02-defining-modules-to-control-scope-and-privacy.html#modules-cheat-sheet) section in The Rust Programming Language book.
  -  For an example using monospace font, see the [Panicking](https://docs.rust-embedded.org/book/start/panicking.html#panicking) section in The Embedded Rust Book.

## Using `monospace`

Use monospace font for the following items:

- Code snippets

  The [Installation](https://book.cairo-lang.org/ch01-01-installation.html) chapter in the Cairo Programming Language book suggests:

  - Start the terminal commands with `$`
  - Output of previous commands should not start with `$`

>   - For PowerShell-specific examples, use `>` instead of `$`

Reviewer 2: we dont have any powerhsell specific example

  [The Rust Programming Language](https://github.com/rust-lang-ja/book-ja/blob/master-ja/style-guide.md) book also suggests:

  - Use `bash` syntax highlighting

- Cairo declarations: commands, functions, arguments, parameters, flags, variables
- In-line command line output

  > Writing a program that prints `Hello, world!`

- Data types: `u8`, `u128`
- Names of crates, traits, libraries,
- Command line tools, plugins, packages
- Files: `Scarb.toml`

> - Images and containers: `idf-rust`

Reviewer 2: we dont use that in the book

- Architectures and targets

  > The `RISC-V` and `Xtensa` architectures.

### Monospace and Other Types of Formatting

Monospace font can also be used in:

- links

>   > [`String`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/string/struct.String.html) is a string type provided by ...

Reviewer 2: rust link, should be a cairo book link

Reviewer 2: actually we use monospace for important information, notes, and stuff like that, not headings nor links i think

  > A driver has to be initialized with an instance of type that implements a certain `trait` of the embedded-hal which is ensured via trait bound and provides its own type instance with a custom set of methods allowing to interact with the driven device.

## Terminology

This chapter lists the terms that have inconsistencies in spelling, usage, etc.

If you spot other issues with terminology, please add the terms here in alphabetical order using the formatting as follows:

- _Recommended term_
  - Avoid: Add typical phrases in which this term is found
  - Use: Add recommended phrases
  - Note: Add more information if needed

### Recommended Terms

- _Scarb_
  - Note: always use uppercase _S_
- _VS Code_
  - Use VS Code by default
  - Use only if necessary: Visual Studio Code

## Admonitions

Use the following formatting for notes and warnings:

- Note

  > ⚠️ **Note**: A note covering an important point or idea. Use sparingly or the readers will start ignoring them.

- Warning

  > 🚨 **Warning**: Use in critical circumstances only, e.g., for irreversible actions or actions potentially harmful to hardware, software, etc.

In markdown:

```md
> ⚠️ **Note**: Write your note.
```

> ## Appendix A Existing Style Guides

Reviewer 2: no appendix to add in this ''chapter''
